.TH "Database keys" 3 "6 Mar 2003" "dbprim" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Database keys \- 
.SS "Defines"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBDB_KEY_INIT\fP(key, size)"
.br
.RI "\fIDatabase key static initializer.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBdk_key\fP(key)"
.br
.RI "\fIDatabase key accessor macro.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBdk_len\fP(key)"
.br
.RI "\fIDatabase key length accessor macro.\fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Typedefs"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "typedef struct _db_key_s \fBdb_key_t\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIDatabase key.\fP"
.in -1c
.SH "DETAILED DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
This module contains interfaces common to all database modules--mainly the macros concerned with manipulating database keys and the definition of the key structure.
.PP
The key may be any arbitrary pointer, including a pointer to a string. Everything that handles a key either copies the contents of the \fBdb_key_t\fP structure or passes it to a user-defined function. If required, as in the case of a string, a length may also be represented in the key structure. 
.SH "DEFINE DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "#define DB_KEY_INIT(key, size)"
.PP
.PP
 This macro allows a \fBdb_key_t\fP to be initialized statically.
.PP
\fBParameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIkey\fP\fP
A pointer to the key. 
.TP
\fB\fIsize\fP\fP
Size of the key. 
.SS "#define dk_key(key)"
.PP
.PP
 This macro allows access to the key field of a \fBdb_key_t\fP. It may be used as an lvalue in order to assign a key to a \fBdb_key_t\fP.
.PP
\fBParameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIkey\fP\fP
A pointer to a \fBdb_key_t\fP. 
.PP
\fBReturns: \fP
.in +1c
A pointer to a key (\fCvoid *\fP). 
.SS "#define dk_len(key)"
.PP
.PP
 This macro allows access to the key length field of a \fBdb_key_t\fP. It may be used as an lvalue in order to assign a length to a \fBdb_key_t\fP.
.PP
\fBParameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIkey\fP\fP
A pointer to a \fBdb_key_t\fP. 
.PP
\fBReturns: \fP
.in +1c
An \fCint\fP describing the length of the key. 
.SH "TYPEDEF DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "typedef struct _db_key_s db_key_t"
.PP
.PP
 This structure is a generic key containing a void * pointer and a length parameter. It should be accessed with * \fBdk_key\fP() and \fBdk_len\fP(). 